iGATE notes:
in march 2014 iGATE filed a lawsuit against Phaneesh murthy(former president and ceo) and seeked compensation for murthys behaviour for the damages he caused the company due to his behaviour.
he was forced to resign for allegations of sexual harrasment, in return murthy filed a lawsuit back at iGATE accusing it for breach of agreement and defamation.

Termination "for cause" is the dismissal of an employee for a satisfactory reason.

Murthy implemented a outcome based billing rather than hours worked on the product/service based billing which was a good hit in the market and attracted many price-sensitive customers.
This model and his other contributions were very profitable for iGATE as it transform it to a global software service provider.
He was thus appointed as the president and ceo of iGATE global.

Acquisition of Patni computer systems(a 3 times bigger company than iGATE) was one of the best moves in Murthy's career at iGATE and it brought a lot of success for the company as well as
for Murthy himself as he received a lot of financial compensation, bonuses, pay-increases, incentives as well as additional health insurance provision which would pay long-term health
insurance premiums for his spouse and dependents, if he was to end his employment at iGATE, irrespective of the reason for his termination.

iGATE terminated Murthy's employment as president and CEO on charges of not informing the higher authorities of his relationship with another employee at iGATE which later Murthy himself
confirmed to be Ms.Araceli Roiz. The company's shares fell dramatically around 13 percent touching an 18 month low of $14.25

Murthy responded in a teleconference with journalists in India stating that it was a case of extortion as i had already informed chairman Wadhwani and clearly denied the claims of sexual
harrasment. He said it is not the first time i am facing this type of situation back in 2002 was the first claim of sexual harrasment on me and it was a way to extract money for an 
ostensible(meaning: looks to be true but isn't necessarily true) reason.

In December 2013, seven months after being fired, Murthy filed a lawsuit with a California court, accusing iGATE of breach of agreements (employment agreement, stock option agreement, and 
agreement of good faith and fair dealing), making false promises, withholding wages, and defaming Murthy by justifying the company’s actions.

Murthy’s employment agreement required him to “indemnify the company for any loss suffered as a consequence of a breach” of iGATE’s policies and regulations.48 Thus, in March 2014, iGATE
filed a countersuit against Murthy, seeking compensation for damages that resulted from Murthy’s actions and irresponsible behaviour. The company also claimed legal fees and other costs
iGATE incurred to resolve Roiz’s claims against Murthy and the company. The indemnification clause had been allegedly added to Murthy’s employment agreement due to his history of sexual harassment.
